Project Gutenberg's LRL Accelerators, by Lawrence Radiation Laboratory

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: LRL Accelerators
       The 184-Inch Synchrocyclotron

Author: Lawrence Radiation Laboratory

Release Date: August 10, 2010 [EBook #33397]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-8859-1

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LRL ACCELERATORS ***




Produced by Erica Pfister-Altschul, Mark C. Orton, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









_LRL Accelerators_




THE 184-INCH SYNCHROCYCLOTRON


LAWRENCE RADIATION LABORATORY

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA


Pub. No. 2d

5M
June 1964


[Illustration: Synchrocyclotron Building]




_Contents_


                                                                    Page

THE 184-INCH SYNCHROCYCLOTRON                                          2

PRINCIPLE OF OPERATION OF A CONVENTIONAL CYCLOTRON                     3

THE PRINCIPLE OF PHASE STABILITY                                       6

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE 184-INCH SYNCHROCYCLOTRON               8

  Magnet                                                               8

  Vacuum System                                                        9

  Ion Source                                                          10

  Radiofrequency System                                               10

  Internal Targets and Beam Extractor                                 12

CYCLOTRON EXPERIMENTS                                                 15

  Nuclear Physics                                                     15

  Biophysics                                                          18

  Nuclear Chemistry                                                   19

BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                          20

APPENDIX                                                              21




THE 184-INCH SYNCHROCYCLOTRON


His success with the 60-inch cyclotron in 1939 led Dr. E. O. Lawrence to
propose a much more powerful accelerator, one which could produce new
types of nuclear rearrangements and even create particles. Grants
totaling $1,225,000 permitted work to start on the 184-inch cyclotron in
August 1940.[1] It was designed to accelerate atomic particles to an
energy of 100 million electron volts (Mev), five times that possible
with the 60-inch machine.

[Illustration: Fig. 1. The electromagnet under construction during the
period 1940 to 1942.]

Before the new cyclotron could be finished World War II began.
Construction on the cyclotron was therefore halted. However, because of
interest in separating the isotopes of uranium by the electromagnetic
method, work on the giant magnet continued at an even faster pace. This
magnet would contain 3700 tons of steel in its yoke and pole pieces, and
300 tons of copper in its exciting coils (Fig. 1). By May 1942 the
magnet was completed. During that summer it was used in a pilot plant to
separate the first significant amounts of U^{235} ever obtained. The
184-inch magnet remained in use in a research and development program at
Berkeley until the end of the war, supplying information to Oak Ridge,
Tennessee, where a large separation plant had been erected.

Construction on the rest of the cyclotron was resumed in 1945. By that
time a new principle had been discovered which made it possible to
obtain ion beams of much higher energy than originally hoped for. Yet a
considerably lower accelerating voltage could be used. This important
discovery was made independently by Dr. V. Veksler in Russia and by
Dr. Edwin M. McMillan, present Director of the Lawrence Radiation
Laboratory. Before attempting to discuss this principle, we should first
review the operation of a conventional cyclotron.




PRINCIPLE OF OPERATION OF A CONVENTIONAL CYCLOTRON


[Illustration: Fig. 2. Basic parts of a cyclotron.]

The main parts of a cyclotron are represented in Fig. 2. Charged
particles (ions) are accelerated inside an evacuated tank. This is to
prevent the beam from colliding with air molecules and being scattered.
The vacuum tank is placed between the poles of an electromagnet, whose
field bends the ion beam into a circular orbit.

The operation begins when the ions are introduced into the region
between two accelerating electrodes, or "dees."[2] Because the ions
carry a positive electric charge, they are attracted toward that dee
which is electrically negative at the moment. Were it not for the
magnetic field, the ions would be accelerated in a straight line;
instead they are deflected into a circular path back toward the dee gap.
By the time the ions again reach the dee gap, the sign of the electric
potential on the dees is reversed, so that now the ions are attracted
toward the opposite dee.

As this process of alternating the electric potential is repeated, the
ions gain speed and energy with each revolution. This causes them to
spiral outward. Finally they strike a target inserted into their path or
are extracted from the cyclotron for use as an external beam.

The time required for an ion to complete one loop remains constant as it
spirals outward. This is because its velocity increases sufficiently to
make up for the increased distance it travels during each turn. This
means that the electric potential applied to the dees must alternate at
a constant frequency, called the "resonant frequency."

The resonant frequency f is given by the relationship

            He
    f = --------- ,                                      (1)
         2[pi]mc

where H, e, [pi], c, and m are constants. H is the strength of the
magnetic field of the cyclotron, e is the electric charge carried by the
ion, [pi] equals 3.14, c is a conversion factor, and m is the mass of
the ion. For example, the resonant frequency for protons accelerated in
a 15,000-gauss magnetic field is 23.7 megacycles (Mc).[3] We call such a
rapidly alternating potential a "radiofrequency voltage" and the
electronic circuit for producing it a "radiofrequency oscillator."

The energy E of an ion emerging from the cyclotron is given by

        H^2 R^2   e^2
    E = -------  ---- ,                                  (2)
           2     mc^2

where H, e, and m are as defined above, and R is the radius at which the
beam is extracted. From this equation we see that for a given type of
ion (where e and m are constant), the energy depends on the diameter and
strength of the magnet, but not directly upon the voltage applied to the
dees.

The number of revolutions that an ion can make in a conventional
cyclotron is limited to about 70 to 100. This is due to a very curious
effect: as an ion is accelerated, its mass increases! [This phenomenon
is explained by Einstein's special theory of relativity (see Fig. 3).]
Referring back to Eq. (1), we see that if the ion mass (m) does not
remain constant, but rather increases, then the resonant frequency (f)
decreases. But since the dee potential continues alternating at a
constant frequency, an ion soon begins to arrive "late" at the dee gap.
By the time it has made about 70 to 100 turns an ion is so badly out of
phase that it is no longer accelerated.

Suppose now that we want to obtain an energy of 10 Mev. Because an ion
can make a maximum of about 100 turns, the accelerating potential would
have to be about 100,000 volts. However, Professor Lawrence hoped to
reach 100 Mev with the new 184-inch cyclotron. This meant that the
accelerating voltage would have to be about 1,000,000 volts. Preventing
such a high voltage from sparking promised to be one of many formidable
engineering problems.

[Illustration: Fig. 3. Graph showing how the mass of an object increases
as its velocity approaches that of light.]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The grants were as follows: Rockefeller Foundation--$1,150,000; John
and Mary Markle Foundation--$25,000; The Research Corporation--$50,000.
The University of California added a guarantee of $175,000 to bring the
total building fund to $1,400,000.

[2] In the first cyclotrons the electrodes were shaped like the letter
"D."

[3] We have the values H = 15,000 gauss, e = 4.8 × 10^{-10}
electrostatic units, and m = 1.6 × 10^{-24} gram. To find f, we write

        15,000 (4.8) 10^{-10}
    f = ---------------------------------- ,
        2 (3.14)(1.6) 10^{-24} (3) 10^{10}

    f = 23.7 Mc.




THE PRINCIPLE OF PHASE STABILITY


Fortunately, Drs. Veksler and McMillan showed that relatively low dee
voltages can be used to accelerate ions to very high energies. This is
possible if the oscillator frequency is continuously decreased to keep
it in synchronism with the decreasing rotational frequency of the ions.
This would allow an ion to make many revolutions without becoming out of
phase. This principle of phase stability was experimentally verified
with the 37-inch cyclotron before being incorporated into the design of
the 184-inch machine. Because it utilizes this principle, this machine
has usually been referred to as a "synchrocyclotron" or
"frequency-modulated cyclotron." However, it is sometimes called simply
a "cyclotron."

The 184-inch synchrocyclotron was first operated in November 1946. With
a maximum dee voltage of only 20,000 volts, it accelerated deuterons to
190 Mev and alpha particles to 380 Mev.[4] In 1949 it was modified to
permit production of 350-Mev protons also.

Between 1955 and 1957 the synchrocyclotron was rebuilt so that now the
following energies can be obtained:

    Protons  Deuterons  Alpha Particles  Helium-3 nuclei[5]
    -------  ---------  ---------------  ---------------
    730 Mev   460 Mev       910 Mev         1140 Mev

In reaching an energy of 730 Mev a proton, for example, makes 75,000
revolutions in just 6 milliseconds (msec). It travels a distance of 450
miles and attains a velocity of 152,000 miles per second, or 82% of the
speed of light! During this brief journey its mass increases 75%, giving
very convincing evidence for the validity of Einstein's theory. Similar
data for other ions may be found in the appendix.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] A deuteron is the nucleus of an atom of heavy hydrogen and contains
one proton and one neutron; it carries a single positive electric
charge. An alpha particle is the nucleus of a helium atom and is made up
of two protons and two neutrons; it carries two positive charges.

[5] The machine is equipped for helium-3 operation, but to date it has
not been used for that purpose.




DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF THE 184-INCH SYNCHROCYCLOTRON


_Magnet_

During the rebuilding of the cyclotron, the diameter of the magnet pole
pieces was increased from 184 to 188-3/4 inches. Also, the pole gap at
the center was reduced from 21 to 14 inches. These changes increased the
weight of steel in the magnet from 3700 to 4000 tons.

The main exciting coils, which contain 1300 turns of copper-bar
conductor each, were not altered. Two auxiliary coils containing 425
turns each were added. This brought the total weight of copper from 300
to 340 tons. The coils are layer-wound around the pole pieces close to
the pole gap. Other data about the coils are given in the appendix.

The effect of these modifications was to increase the field strength at
the center of the pole gap from 15,000 to 23,400 gauss. This increase
made it possible to obtain the higher-energy ions.

Power is supplied to the coils by two motor generator sets, which
produce the direct current required for a steady magnetic field. The
direct current from the motor generators is regulated so that the
magnetic-field fluctuation is less than one part in 10,000. This is
necessary if one wants an external beam of nearly uniform energy.

In order to prevent the beam from becoming unstable and striking the
dee, the magnetic field must be strongest at the center and decrease
radially (Fig. 4a). With flat pole faces the field does not decrease
uniformly. To give the desired rate of decrease, the pole faces are
shimmed with concentric steel rings of varying thickness, as shown in
Fig. 4b. In a radially decreasing magnetic field, the lines of magnetic
flux bow outward, as represented in Fig. 4b. Ions moving in a magnetic
field are deflected at right angles to these flux lines. Ions above the
midplane of the cyclotron are directed downward; those below the
midplane are directed upward. In this way an ion oscillates about the
midplane and vertical focusing is achieved.

[Illustration: Fig. 4.

(a) Plot of magnetic-field strength vs radius. The field strength
decreases gradually out to a radius of about 83-in., after which it
falls off sharply. This point marks the maximum usable radius for
particle orbits. Further out they are unstable.

(b) Magnetic flux lines are represented as broken arrows, and focusing
forces as solid arrows. An ion above the midplane is directed downward,
while an ion below the midplane is directed upward.]

Radial focusing is accomplished in a somewhat analogous manner. If the
magnetic field decreases with radius, radial restoring forces are
established. An ion at too large a radius is directed inward, and an ion
at too small a radius is directed outward. In this fashion, the ion
oscillates about the synchronous orbit. Thus, radial focusing is
achieved.


_Vacuum System_

The vacuum tank (acceleration chamber) is a steel box 20 × 25 ft and 4 ft
high. It is evacuated to a pressure of 10^{-5} millimeter of mercury
(about one 100-millionth of atmospheric pressure). The pumping equipment
consists of six oil-diffusion pumps and four mechanical vacuum pumps.
The pumping speed of the six 20-in. oil-diffusion pumps is a total of
20,000 liters/sec.


_Ion Source_

The ion source is a simple arc-type. Hydrogen gas is allowed to leak
into the ion-source enclosure near a tungsten filament, which is heated
to incandescence. Electrons emitted by the filament knock off electrons
from hydrogen atoms, leaving free protons. The protons then escape into
the acceleration chamber through a hole in the ion-source housing. Once
inside, the protons are accelerated by the dee potential.

Deuterons or alpha particles are obtained in a similar fashion using
deuterium or helium gas in place of hydrogen.


_Radiofrequency System_

The 184-inch synchrocyclotron has a single dee instead of the double-dee
arrangement described above for illustrative purposes. The accelerating
electric field is developed between the dee and a dummy dee which is
grounded to the vacuum tank. Using a single dee does not change the
principle of operation, yet it offers the advantage of allowing more
space for auxiliary equipment inside the vacuum tank. Also, the
construction is much simpler. The dummy dee is not essential for
operation, but it does improve performance.

[Illustration: Fig. 5. Radiofrequency cycle for accelerating protons.
Sixty-four such cycles are repeated each second.]

Radiofrequency power is supplied to the dee by a vacuum-tube
oscillator. The frequency of oscillation must decrease during the
acceleration cycle, as indicated above. For protons, the frequency at
the start of acceleration is 36 megacycles (Mc). At the end of
acceleration the frequency is only 18 Mc (see Fig. 5). This change in
frequency is achieved by varying the electrical capacitance in the tuned
circuit of the oscillator. (This is what you do when you dial a
different station on a radio.) This tuned circuit, which is called the
cyclotron resonator, is shown in Fig. 6.

[Illustration: Fig. 6. Cyclotron resonator.]

Because the frequency must change over such a wide range (from 36 to 18
Mc), the electrical capacitance must be varied by a factor of 20 to 1.
This is done by a variable capacitor of unique design. It resembles two
giant tuning forks. As the blades of the tuning forks vibrate, the
capacitance is alternately increased and decreased by the required
amount.

These two tuning forks must be kept in step with great precision. This
is to prevent the oscillator from exciting lateral rf resonances. With a
cyclotron of this size, this is a problem. These resonances, if excited,
would cause loss of beam. The method for keeping the blades moving
together is as follows: The blades are made to vibrate at their resonant
frequency, which is approximately 64 cycles per second. One set of
blades operates at its natural frequency as a tuning-fork oscillator.
The second set of blades is driven from an amplified sample of the
signal from the first; its natural period is adjusted automatically to
equal that of the first. The amplitude of each set is regulated to
within 0.003 in.; the phase angle between the blades is regulated to
within 1 deg.

Ions are accelerated only when the radiofrequency is decreasing (Fig. 5).
The remaining portion of the cycle is "dead time." Thus, 64 pulses, each
of about 500 microseconds' duration, are obtained every second. The
average ion current of a pulsed beam is much less than for a continuous
beam, such as that obtained from a conventional cyclotron (see Table I).
This is part of the price paid for higher energies.


_Internal Targets and Beam Extractor_

The simplest target is one placed inside the vacuum tank where the
circulating beam will strike it. The target may be any substance that
the physicist or chemist wants to irradiate. The target material is
attached to a movable probe. If the experimenter wants to use the
full-energy beam, he places the target at the maximum usable radius of
the circulating beam (82 inches). However, if he desires to use ions
having less than the maximum energy, he inserts the target further into
the cyclotron so that it is intercepted sooner.

TABLE I

=============================================================
   Comparison of external-beam energy and current for a
     synchrocyclotron and a conventional cyclotron
-------------------------------------------------------------

                  184-Inch Synchrocyclotron
                  -------------------------

                          Protons  Deuterons  Alpha particles
                          -------  ---------  ---------------
Beam energy --
  maximum (Mev)              730       460           910

Beam intensity --
  peak current ([mu]a)[6]    120       120            40

Beam intensity --
  average current ([mu]a)   0.75      0.75          0.25

                      60-Inch Cyclotron
                      -----------------
Beam energy --
  maximum (Mev)               12        24            48

Beam intensity --
  peak current ([mu]a)       100       150           100

Beam intensity --
  average current ([mu]a)     70        80            60
-------------------------------------------------------------
    [6] [mu]a = microampere
=============================================================

[Illustration: Fig. 7. Plan view of the cyclotron, showing the method
for obtaining an external beam of protons, deuterons, or alpha
particles.]

Some experiments require an external beam of protons, deuterons, or
alpha particles. A beam of this type can be brought out of the machine
by means of a LeCouteur regenerator (Fig. 7). The construction of the
regenerator is very simple. It is made of a number of steel laminations
of various sizes. What the regenerator does is perturb the magnetic
field of the cyclotron at one radial position. Each time the beam passes
through the regenerator it receives a kick. With each kick the beam
builds up its radial amplitude, until finally it enters a magnetic
channel. This channel focuses the beam and steers it outside the main
magnetic field. Once outside, the beam travels through an evacuated
tube, which is integral with the main vacuum tank. By means of a
steering magnet, the beam can be sent into either the physics cave or
the medical cave. (These experimental areas are called "caves" because
they are rooms inside the massive concrete shielding wall.)

Other experiments may require an external beam of mesons.[7] A meson
beam is obtained in the following way (Fig. 8): A movable target such as
a block of carbon is placed inside the cyclotron near the end of the
outward-spiraling proton beam. When the proton beam hits this target, a
shower of mesons is produced. These mesons are bent in various
directions by the main magnetic field. Some of them pass through a thin
metal window in the vacuum-tank wall and are focused by a magnetic lens
into a beam. This meson beam then travels through a hole in the concrete
shielding wall into the meson cave. The maximum intensity of this
extracted meson beam depends on both the charge and energy desired.
Beams of more than 100,000 mesons per second have been obtained through
an aperture 4 × 4 in. in the shielding wall.




CYCLOTRON EXPERIMENTS


_Nuclear Physics_

About 86% of the operating time of the 184-inch synchrocyclotron is
devoted to experiments in nuclear physics. Most of the experiments study
the production and interaction of [pi] mesons. These particles are
considered to be essential factors in the intense but short-range forces
that bind the nucleus together. The three types of [pi] mesons are
designated according to their electric charge as [pi]^+, [pi]^0, and
[pi]^-.[8] These mesons materialize only in high-energy nuclear
collisions.

[Illustration: Fig. 8. Method for obtaining external meson beam.]

Of great importance are those experiments that determine the
probability of producing each of the three types of mesons in a nuclear
collision. This type of experiment is repeated for different beam
energies and target elements. Other experiments measure the energy and
direction of emission of [pi] mesons from a target.

[Illustration: Fig. 9. A typical experiment. Scintillation counters at
A, B, C, D, and E record the passage of charged particles.]

A typical [pi]-meson experiment is represented in Fig. 9. The purpose
of this experiment was to detect the spin directions of protons as they
are knocked out of a liquid hydrogen target by a [pi]-meson beam. (Like
the earth, a proton spins on its axis.) An extracted proton beam from
the cyclotron enters the physics cave from the left, striking a
polyethylene target and producing [pi] mesons. A beam of these mesons is
formed by a series of two bending magnets and three focusing magnets.
This beam passes through a carbon absorber to remove unwanted particles.
The meson beam then strikes the liquid hydrogen target. A few of the
incoming mesons scatter, knocking protons out of the liquid hydrogen.
Scintillation counters at A and B record the passage of a proton, thus
defining its direction. The scattered mesons are counted by a
scintillation counter at C. A few of the protons scatter off the carbon
target and are detected by counters at E and D. From the detection of
such events, the spin directions (polarization) of the recoil protons
can be analyzed. In this way, more is learned about the fundamental
[pi]-proton interaction.

Further studies of the interactions of [pi] mesons are made in the meson
cave. Other experiments performed there are concerned with [mu] mesons.
The [mu] meson (muon) is a particle created in the decay of a [pi] meson
and is the principal constituent of cosmic rays striking the surface of
the earth. The muon is unstable, eventually undergoing a radioactive
decay into an electron. Although the muon does not experience nuclear
forces, it can interact weakly with nuclei. The behavior of the muon is
well understood, but its role as one of the elementary particles is
unknown. That is, if the muon did not exist, what effect would this have
on the structure of matter? The answer to this question, among others,
is being sought by physicists using the 184-inch cyclotron.


_Biophysics_

Experiments in biophysics are conducted in the medical cave. In these
the interest lies not in nuclear interactions but in the effect of
ionizing radiation on living tissue. High-energy beams of particles can
be used for selective destruction of specific areas of the brain. This
permits physiological mapping of the functions of the brain in
experimental animals. It further offers a therapeutic approach to the
treatment of brain tumors. One of the important investigational programs
is concerned with the relationship of the pituitary gland to the growth
rate of certain cancers and to some endocrine disorders.


_Nuclear Chemistry_

For techniques of radiochemistry to be employed successfully, high
interaction rates (and therefore high beam intensities) are needed. For
this reason, chemistry targets are usually inserted right into the
cyclotron so that they can be bombarded directly by the circulating
beam. After the bombardment is completed the target is removed from the
cyclotron. It is then taken to a chemistry laboratory and subjected to
detailed chemical procedures. Individual elements are removed, and the
radioactive isotopes of each element are identified by quantitative
counting techniques. In some cases a mass spectrometer is used to
analyze the products. Many deductions about the nature of the breakup of
the target nucleus can be drawn from the pattern of the observed
radioactive products. Sometimes the nucleus splits almost in half. This
is called fission. More frequently smaller parts of the nucleus are
split off. Two general types of reactions, known as spallation and
fragmentation, are distinguished. One of the goals of this research is
to learn more about the constitution of the nucleus and of the forces
which bind the particles in the interior of the nucleus.

FOOTNOTES:

[7] Mesons are elementary particles intermediate in mass between the
electron and proton.

[8] It may be interesting to note that the [pi]^0 meson was discovered
with this cyclotron in 1950. This was the first particle to be
discovered with an accelerator. All particles that had been previously
discovered were observed first in cosmic rays or some other form of
natural radiation.




BIBLIOGRAPHY


1. Gerald A. Behman, Particle Accelerators: I. Bibliography, II. List
   of Accelerator Installations, UCRL-8050, January 1, 1958.

2. Samuel Glasstone, The Acceleration of Charged Particles, in
   _Sourcebook on Atomic Energy_, Second Edition (Van Nostrand,
   Princeton, 1958), Ch. IX.

3. M. S. Livingston, _High-Energy Accelerators_ (Interscience
   Publishers, New York, 1954).

4. M. Stanley Livingston and Edwin M. McMillan, History of the
   Cyclotron, Physics Today _12_, 18-34 (October 1959).

5. E. M. McMillan, Particle Accelerators, in _Experimental Nuclear
   Physics_, Emilio Segrè, Editor, Vol. III (Wiley, New York, 1959),
   Part XIII.

6. Bob H. Smith _et al._, The Electrical Aspects of the UCRL 740-Mev
   Synchrocyclotron, UCRL-3779 Rev., October 2, 1957.

7. Robert L. Thornton, Frequency-Modulation and Radiofrequency System
   for the Modified Berkeley Cyclotron, UCRL-3362, April 3, 1956.

8. Robert R. Wilson, Particle Accelerators, Scientific American _198_,
   64-76 (March 1958).




APPENDIX


SUMMARY OF SPECIFICATIONS

  Present fields of research    % of time
  --------------------------    ---------
    Nuclear physics                 86
    Nuclear chemistry                2
    Biophysics                      12

  _Scheduled operation_         156 hours/week


_Performance_

_Internal Beams_

                                                      Alpha     Helium-3
                                Protons  Deuterons  particles     ions
                                -------  ---------  ---------   --------
  Maximum energy (Mev)             730       460        910        1140
  Energy spread (Mev)               55
  Beam intensity
    Average current ([mu]a)       0.75      0.75       0.25
    Peak current ([mu]a)           120       120         40
  Beam radius, maximum (in.)        82        82         82          82
  Time required for
    acceleration (msec)              6       4.5        4.5
  Number of revolutions
    during acceleration         75,000    60,000     60,000
  Distance traveled during
    acceleration (miles)           450       360        360
  Velocity at maximum energy
    (% of speed of light)           82        60         60          69
  Mass increase at maximum
    energy (% of rest mass)         75        25         25          40
  Range of full-energy
    particles (in. of aluminum)     37        12          7

_External Beams_

                                  Physics cave             Meson cave
                            -----------------------  -------------------
                            Protons Neutrons [pi]^+   [pi]^+    [pi]^-
                            ------- -------- ------  --------  ---------
  Energy (Mev)               730              310     100|250   100| 300
  Energy spread (Mev)         14                       10| 20    10|  30
  Beam area (cm^2)            25               40     100|100   100| 100
  Flux (particles/cm^2-sec) 2×10^10  5×10^5  5×10^4  1000|100  1500|1000


_Acceleration chamber (vacuum tank)_

  Size
    length (ft)                                              25
    width (ft)                                               20
    height (ft)                                               4

  Material: mild steel

  Operating pressure (mm Hg)                                 10^-5

  Vacuum pumps: six 20-in. oil-diffusion pumps with 8-in. boosters:
                one Beach-Russ 750-cfm; one Kinney 300-cfm; two
                Kinney 105-cfm.

  Pumping speed of oil-diffusion pumps (liters/sec)      20,000


_Magnet_

  Core diameter (in.)                            184
  Pole-tip diameter (in.)                     188.75
  Pole gap at center (in.)                        14
  Magnetic field strength (gauss)
    at center                                 23,400
    at radius of 82.2 in., where n = 0.2      22,275
  Weight of steel (tons)                       4,000
  Magnet coils              Main coils    Auxiliary coils
                            ----------    ---------------
  material                 solid copper    hollow copper
                          (1/4 × 4 in.)  (1-3/16 × 1-1/16 in.)
  weight of copper (tons)         300             40
  number of turns (total)       2,600            425
  ampere turns             1.9 × 10^6     1.1 × 10^6
  current (amp)                  1600           2800
  voltage (v)                     550            560
  power (kw)                      900           1600
  coolant                    oil            water


_Radiofrequency system_

  Dee system
    number of dees                                         1
    size
      length (in.)                                     126
      width (in.)                                      180
      height (in.)                                      48
    material: 1/64-in.-thick copper, stretched over a stainless
              steel frame
    dee aperture (in.)                                4-3/16

  Oscillator
    type: self-excited grounded-grid                      10
    tube: one Machlett ML5681
    dc input, operating condition (kw)                    10
    dee bias, maximum dc (v)                            2000

                             Protons  Deuterons  Alpha particles
                             -------  ---------  ---------------
    rf duty cycle (%)          38        28            28
    dee-to-ground voltage,
    peak (kv)                   9         6             6

  Frequency-modulation system
    type: vibrating-reed (tuning-fork) capacitor
    number of units: two (two blades each)
    blades
      size
        width (in.)                                       45
        length (in.)                                      32
        thickness: tapered from 1.4 to 0.06 in.
        weight (lb)                                      500
    vibrational frequency (cps)                           64
    electrical capacitance ([mu][mu]f)          300 to 6,500
    peak-to-peak excursion (in.)                           1
    minimum separation of blade and stator (mils)         50

                            Protons   Deuterons   Alpha particles
                            -------   ---------   ---------------
    frequency sweep (Mc)     36-18    18-13.5        18-13.5

  Ion source: conventional open-arc type


_Beam extractor_

  LeCouteur-type regenerator combined with magnetic channel


_Building and facilities_

  Room dimensions
    diameter (ft)          160
    height (ft)             90

  Crane
    type: radial
    capacity (tons)         30
    overhead span (ft)      77

  Concrete shielding: 15 ft thick on sides, 4 ft on top


_History_

  Design started: January 1940.
  Construction started: August 1940.
  First operation
    for deuterons and alpha particles: November 1946.
    for protons: December 1948.
  Rebuilt: 1955-1957.

[Illustration: Synchrocyclotron Building]


[Transcriber's Note:
  The following changes have been made to the printed text:
    Page 15, added closing quote (are called "caves" because)
    Page 19, "iostopes" corrected to "isotopes" ]





End of Project Gutenberg's LRL Accelerators, by Lawrence Radiation Laboratory

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LRL ACCELERATORS ***

***** This file should be named 33397-8.txt or 33397-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/3/3/9/33397/

Produced by Erica Pfister-Altschul, Mark C. Orton, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
